>> Ifill: DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGELRDER OED A FULL
REVIEW OF SECURITY PROCEDURES
AND CLEARANCES AT MILITARY
FACILITIES WORLDWIDE IN THE WAKE
OF THE MASSACRE AT WASHINGTON'S
NAVY YARD.
WE HAVE AN EXCLUSIVE INTERVIEW
WITH SECRETARY HAGEL TONIGHT.
>> THE HIGHEST RESPONSIBILITY
LEADERS HAVE IS TO PROTECT THEIR
PEOPLE, IS TO TAKE CARE OF THEIR
PEOPLE.
WHEN SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAPPENS
SOMETHING FAILS.
SOMETHING BROKE DOWN.
>
>> Woodruff: PLUS, U.S.
FINANCIAL MARKETS SHOT UP TO
RECORD HIGHS, AFTER A SURPRISE
ANNOUNCEMENT BY THE FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK THAT IT WILL
CONTINUE ITS ECONOMIC STIMULUS
PROGRAM.
>> Ifill: AND WE TRAVEL TO THE
NORTHERNMOST TIP OF NORTH
AMERICA, WHERE CLIMATE CHANGE IS
ENDANGERING A CENTURIES-OLD WAY
OF LIFE FOR NATIVE ALASKANS.
>> THIS IS OUR GARDEN, OUR
GROCERY STORE, YOU KNOW, IT'S
KIND OF HARD TO SAY IF OUR
YOUNGER GENERATIONS WILL BE ABLE
TO DO WHAT WE DO.
>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF THE
STORIES WE'RE COVERING
ON TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: OUR LEAD STORY
TONIGHT: THERE WAS NEW FALLOUT
FROM MONDAY'S MASS SHOOTINGS IN
THE NATION'S CAPITAL CITY.
ORDERS WENT OUT TODAY TO REVIEW
SECURITY, EVEN AS THE
INVESTIGATION CONTINUED AT THE
SCENE OF THE CRIME.
STEPPED-UP SECURITY WAS STILL IN
EVIDENCE AT THE WASHINGTON NAVY
YARD, WHILE A FEW MILES AWAY, AT
THE PENTAGON, DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCGE
SECURITY AT U.S. DEFENSE
FACILITIES WORLDWIDE, AND OF THE
PROCESS FOR GRANTING CLEARANCES.
>> WHERE THERE ARE GAPS, WE WILL
CLOSE THEM.
WHERE THERE ARE INADEQUACIES, WE
WILL ADDRESS THEM.
AND WHERE THERE ARE FAILURES, WE
WILL CORRECT THEM.
>> Woodruff: IT'S NOW KNOWN THAT
AARON ALEXIS-- THE GUNMAN IN
MONDAY'S KILLINGS-- USED A VALID
PASS TO ENTER THE NAVY YARD,
WITH A LEGALLY PURCHASED
SHOTGUN.
THE NAVY CONTRACTOR AND FORMER
RESERVIST HAD BEEN GRANTED A
SECURITY CLEARANCE IN 2007,
DESPITE A PRIOR ARREST IN 2004.
HE RETAINED THAT CLEARANCE, EVEN
AFTER ANOTHER ARREST IN 2010.
JUST LAST MONTH, ON AUGUST 7,
POLICE IN NEWPORT, RHODE ISLAND
REPORTED ALEXIS COMPLAINED OF
VOICES TALKING TO HIM THROUGH
THE WALLS, FLOOR AND CEILING OF
HIS HOTEL ROOM.
THE POLICE SAY THEY RELAYED WORD
OF THE INCIDENT TO THE NEWPORT
NAVAL STATION.
ALL OF WHICH, LEFT THE CHAIN OF
COMMAND LOOKING FOR ANSWERS.
>> OBVIOUSLY, WHEN YOU GO BACK
IN HINDSIGHT AND LOOK AT ALL
THIS, THERE WERE SOME RED FLAGS,
OF COURSE THERE WERE.
AND SHOULD WE HAVPICKE ED THEM
UP?
WHY DIDN'T WE?
HOW COULD WE HAVE?
ALL OF THOSE QUESTIONS NEED TO
BE ANSWERED.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, THE
GUNMAN'S MOTIVE REMAINED A
MYSTERY.
BUT FROM HER HOME IN BROOKLYN,
NEW YORK, CATHLEEN ALEXIS ISSUED
A BRIEF AUDIO STATEMENT,
APOLOGIZING FOR HER SON'S
ACTIONS.
>> Woodruff: THERE WAS WORD
TODAY THAT A MEMORIAL SERVICE
FOR THE VICTIMS IS SET FOR
SUNDAY.
PRESIDENT OBAMA PLANS TO ATTEND.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON ALL OF THIS
AND OTHER ISSUES IN AN INTERVIEW
WITH DEFENSE SECRETARY HAGEL,
RIGHT AFTER THE OTHER NEWS OF
THIS DAY.
>> Ifill: THE FEDERAL RESERVE
WILL NOT DIAL BACK ITS ECONOMIC
STIMULUS PROGRAM, JUST YET.
IN A SURPRISE MOVE, THE CENTRAL
BANK ANNOUNCED TODAY IT PLANS TO
CONTINUE BUYING BILLIONS OF
DOLLARS OF BONDS, TO HOLD DOWN
INTEREST RATES.
FED CHAIRMAN BEN BERNANKE SAID
IT'S BECAUSE THE ECONOMIC
OUTLOOK HAS  DIMMED IN RECENT
MONTHS.
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON THE FED'S
DECISION, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE FED'S ANNOUNCEMENT SENT WALL
STREET ON A BUYING BINGE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 147 POINTS TO CLOSE JUST
SHORT OF 15,677.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 38 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3,783.
THE BUDGET FIGHT IN WASHINGTON
HEATED UP TODAY.
HOUSE REPUBLICAN LEADERS
ANNOUNCED THEY'LL TRY TO BLOCK
FUNDING FOR THE PRESIDENT'S
HEALTH CARE LAW, EVEN IF IT
MEANS SHUTTING DOWN THE
GOVERNMENT AT MONTH'S END.
SENATE DEMOCRATS ARE CERTAIN TO
REVIVE THE HEALTH CARE
PROVISION, AND HOUSE SPEAKER
JOHN BOEHNER PLAYED DOWN THE
PROSPECT OF A SHUTDOWN.
>> THERE SHOULD BE NO
CONVERSATION ABOUT SHUTTING THE
GOVERNMENT DOWN.
THAT'S NOT THE GOAL HERE.
OUR GOAL HERE IS TO CUT SPENDING
AND TO PROTECT THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE FROM OBAMACARE.
IT'S A SIMPLE AS THAT.
THERE'S NO INTEREST IN OUR PART
FROM SHUTTING THE GOVERNMENT
DOWN.
>> Ifill: HOUSE LEADERS SAID
TODAY THEY WILL ALSO TRY TO
DELAY THE HEALTH CARE LAW FOR A
YEAR BY TYING IT TO A SEPARATE
BILL RAISING THE NATIONAL DEBT
CEILING.
THAT CEILING COULD BE REACHED BY
LATE OCTOBER.
IF IT ISN'T RAISED, THE
GOVERNMENT COULD DEFAULT ON ITS
DEBTS.
PRESIDENT OBAMA TODAY TORE INTO
REPUBLICANS OVER BOTH ISSUES AND
INSISTED HE WON'T GIVE IN.
>> WE HAVE NEVER SEEN IN THE
HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES THE
DEBT CEILINGTOR THREAT OF NOT
RAISING THE DEBT CEILING BEING
USED TO EXTORT A PRESIDENT OR A
GOVERNING PARTY AND THEN TRYING
TO FORCE ISSUES THAT HAVE
NOTHING TO DO WITH THE BUDGET
AND HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH THE
DEBT.
>> Ifill: THE NEXT ROUND IN THE
FIGHT COMES FRIDAY, WHEN THE
HOUSE CONSIDERS THE SPENDING
BILL TO FUND THE GOVERNMENT
THROUGH MID-DECEMBER.
SEPARATELY TODAY, A GROUP OF
HOUSE REPUBLICANS OFFERED THEIR
FIRST COMPREHENSIVE ALTERNATIVE
TO PRESIDENT OBAMA'S HEALTH CARE
LAW.
IT PROVIDES AN EXPANDED TAX
BREAK FOR CONSUMERS WHO PURCHASE
THEIR OWN HEALTH COVERAGE.
IT ALSO CALLS FOR INCREASED
COVERAGE FOR HIGH-RISK
INDIVIDUALS.
THERE'S NO ESTIMATE OF THE
BILL'S TOTAL COST.
THERE MAY BE A NEW CHANCE FOR
DIPLOMACY ON IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM.
THE WHITE HOUSE CONFIRMED TODAY
THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA AND IRAN'S
NEW LEADER HAVE EXCHANGED
LETTERS.
MR. OBAMA OFFERED TO LET TEHRAN
DEMONSTRATE THAT ITS PROGRAM IS
FOR PEACEFUL PURPOSES ONLY.
AND PRESIDENT HASSAN ROUHANI
TOLD NBC NEWS THAT HE HAS FULL
AUTHORITY TO NEGOTIATE A DEAL.
THE DEATH TOLL IN MEXICO ROSE TO
57 TODAY, IN THE WAKE OF STORMS
HARDEST HIT WAS ACAPULCO, WHERE
TROPICAL STORM MANUEL TOUCHED
OFF FLOODING THAT CUT OFF THE
PACIFIC BEACH RESORT.
WE HAVE A REPORT NARRATED BY
LEWIS VAUGHAN JONES OF
"INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS."
COUNTLESS HOMES HAVE BEEN
EVACUATED, LEAVING THOUSANDS
NEEDING HELP.
EVEN THE WAY OUT OF HERE SR.
WAIST DEEP IN WATER.
THIS IS THE MAIN AIRPORT
TERMINAL, USUALLY FULL OF
TOURISTS AT THIS TIME OF YEAR,
BUT OUTSIDE PLANES WERE GROUNDED
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE ARE
TRAPPED HERE.
NOW THE ARMY HAS STEPPED IN TO
HELP AIRLINES FLY PEOPLE AWAY TO
MEXICO CITY.
ED SMITH IS A BRITISH TEACHER
WHO MANAGED TO GET OUT ON A
MILITARY PLANE.
>> THE HOTEL'S NOT DESIGNED TO
COPE WITH WEATHER LIKE THAT SO
EVERYTHING WAS WET, AND DAMP, IT
RAINED AND RAINED.
AND THE DEBRIS, THE AMOUNT OF
DEBRIS THAT WASHED UP ON THE
A DEAD HORSE, A DEAD ARMADILLO,
IT WAS JUST RELENTLESS REALLY.
>> Reporter: THIS IS THE WORST
WEATHER TO HIT MEXICO IN
DECADES.
AND IT IS A DOUBLE ASSAULT.
AS WELL AS THE STORM IN ACAPULCO
IN THE WEST.
A HURRICANE HIT THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE COUNTRY.
MUDSLIDES IN THE EAST HAVE
ALREADY TAKEN LIVES.
FOR MANY, BASIC SUPPLIES ARE LOW
AND OVERNIGHT SHOPS WERE LOOTED.
THIS COUNTRY IS FACING TWO MAJOR
STORMS AT THE SAME TIME.
THE CHALLENGE TO GET MORE AID IN
WHILE GETTING MORE PEOPLE OUT.
>> Ifill: THERE'S A STRONG
POSSIBILITY THAT MEXICO WILL
FACE A DOUBLE BLOW AGAIN THIS
WEEKEND.
TROPICAL STORM "MANUEL" HAS
RE-FORMED, TAKING AIM AT LA PAZ
IN BAJA, CALIFORNIA.
AND, YET ANOTHER STORM COULD BE
HEADED TOWARD MEXICO'S GULF
COAST.
A DOUBLE-DECKER BUS COLLIDED
WITH A PASSENGER TRAIN IN
OTTAWA, CANADA TODAY,  KILLING
SIX PEOPLE.
IT HAPPENED DURING MORNING RUSH
HOUR IN THE CANADIAN CAPITAL.
WITNESSES SAID THE BUS DROVE
THROUGH A CLOSED CROSSING
BARRIER.
THE COLLISION TORE AWAY THE
FRONT OF THE BUS, AND DERAILED
THE TRAIN ENGINE.
AT LEAST 30 PEOPLE WERE INJURED,
TEN CRITICALLY.
OFFICIALS AT THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY NOW SAY THEY
KNOW HOW EDWARD SNOWDEN OBTAINED
THE DOCUMENTS HE LEAKED,
DETAILING SECRET SURVEILLANCE.
NPR REPORTED TODAY THAT SNOWDEN
HAD ACCESS TO THE N.S.A.'S OWN,
INTERNAL WEBSITE, AND, AS A
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR, COULD
COPY DATA WITHOUT BEING
DETECTED.
THE AGENCY SAID IT HAS TAKEN
STEPS TO PREVENT SUCH LEAKS IN
THE FUTURE.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS
GETTING CLOSER TO ENDING ITS
OWNERSHIP ROLE IN GENERAL
MOTORS.
THE TREASURY SOLD ANOTHER BIG
BLOCK OF SHARES OVER THE SUMMER,
REDUCING ITS STAKE IN G.M. TO
JUST OVER 7%.
THAT'S DOWN FROM NEARLY 61%,
WHEN THE GOVERNMENT ILEDBA OUT
THE AUTOMAKER IN 2009.
STILL AHEAD ON THE "NEWSHOUR":
OUR NEWSMAKER INTERVIEW WITH
SECRARY ETOF DEFENSE HAGEL; THE
SURPRISE ANNOUNCEMENT FROM THE
FEDERAL RESERVE; ANSWERS TO MORE
OF YOUR QUESTIONS ON HEALTH CARE
REFORM; HOW CLIMATE CHANGE IS
ENDANGERING A TRADITIONAL WAY OF
LIFE IN THE ARCTIC AND A
BIOGRAPHY OF THE MAN WHO
PHOTOGRAPHED THE CIVIL WAR.
>> Woodruff: WE RETURN NOW TO
OUR LEAD STORY: THE SHOOTING AT
WASHINGTON'S NAVY YARD EARLIER
THIS WEEK.
A SHORT TIME AGO, DEFENSE
SECRETARY HAGEL CAME HERE TO OUR
STUDIO FOR AN EXCLUSIVE
INTERVIEW.
I ASKED HIM ABOUT THE INCIDENT
AND ALSO THE CIVIL WAR IN SYRIA,
UNREST IN EGYPT AND MORE.
SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL, WELCOME
TO THE NEWSHOUR.
>> THANK YOU, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK FIRST
ABOUT THESE TRAGIC SHOOTINGS AT
THE NAVY YAYOU ACKNOWLEDGED EARY
THERE WERE A NUMBER OF RED FLAGS
AS YOU PUT IT, THAT WERE THROWN
OUT THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN PICKED
UP.
YOU'VE COMMISSIONED A COUPLE OF
REVIEWS TO BE DONE AND YOU SAID
WHATEVER MISTAKES WERE WERE MADE
WE'RE GOING TO FIX THEM.
BUT WHAT CAN YOU SAY TO THE
FAMILIES OF THE VICTIMS AND TO
THE PEOPLE WHO STILL WORK AT
THIS NAVY YARD AND OTHER
MILITARY INSTALLATIONS WHO ARE
THINKING "I THOUGHT IF MY LOVED
ONE WORKED AT A PLACE LIKE THIS
THEY'D BE SAFE"?
>> WELL, FIRST, OUR PRAYERS AND
OUR THOUGHTS GO OUT TO THE
FAMILIES AND ALL THOSE AFFECTED
BY THIS TERRIBLE, SENSELESS
TRAGEDY.
SECOND, WE ARE COMMITTED TO A GO
THROUGH EVERYTHING.
WHAT HAPPENED, WHY, COULD WE
HAVE DONE SOMETHING?
WHAT SHOULD WE HAVE DONE?
THE QUESTION ABOUT WHAT DO YOU
TELL FAMILIES, THE HIGHEST
RESPONSIBILITY LEADERS HAVE IS
TO PROTECT THEIR PEOPLE, TO TAKE
CARE OF THEIR PEOPLE.
AND WHEN SOMETHING LIKE THIS
HAPPENS, SOMETHING FAILS,
SOMETHING BROKE DOWN.
NOW, WE LIVE IN AN IMPERFECT
WORLD.
AND I SAID THIS MORNING WE DON'T
LIVE A RISK-FREE SOCIETY.
BUT THAT'S NOT AN EXCUSE.
THAT'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
WE HAVE TO DO MORE TO ASSURE THE
SAFETY OF ALL OF OUR PEOPLE AND
WE'RE COMMITTED TO DO THAT.
WE'LL CONTINUE TO DO THAT.
I'M COMMITTED TO DO IT.
EVERYBODY IS.
>> Woodruff: DON'T PEOPLE HAVE A
RIGHT TO EXPECT THAT A MILITARY
INSTALLATION IS GOING TO BE
SAFER THAN JUST ABOUT ANY PLACE
ELSE?
OR NOT?
>> WELL, THAT'S A GOOD POINT.
BUT REMEMBER, A MILITARY
INSTALLATION IS ABOUT SECURITY
AND ABOUT THE VITAL INTEREST OF
OUR COUNTRY.
YOU HAVE MANY DIFFERENT
INTERESTS IN AND OUT OF THAT
AREA.
YES, BECAUSE THERE IS MORE
SECURITY ON A MILITARY BASE SO
THEREFORE THERE SHOULD BE HIGHER
SECURITY AND IT SHOULDN'T HAPPEN
THERE.
BUT WE DO KNOW THESE THINGS DO
OCCUR.
NOW, AGAIN, THAT'S NOT AN
EXCUSE, THAT'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH.
BUT WE'VE GOT TO FIND OUT WHAT
HAPPENED.
I DON'T HAVE ALL THE FACTS.
WE WON'T KNOW ALL THE FACTS.
WE WILL GET FACTS AND WE WILL
FIX IT.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW THE
DEPARTMENT COMMISSIONED A REPORT
AFTER THE FORT HOOD SHOOTINGS IN
2009, THAT REPORT CAME OUT THREE
YEARS AGO AND SAID THERE WERE
PROBLEMS, NOT ENOUGH ATTENTION
PAID TO INTERNAL THREATS, NOT
ENOUGH INFORMATION SHARING.
THERE'S ANOTHER DEPARTMENT
INSPECTOR GENERAL REPORT THAT
CAME OUT CONVINCE LENTLY JUST
YESTERDAY THAT SAID MORE NEEDS
TO BE DONE TO MAKE NAVAL
INSTALLATIONS MORE SECURE.
WHAT HAPPENS TO ALL THESE
RECOMMENDATIONS AND WHY SHOULD
PEOPLE BELIEVE THE NEW REVIEWS
ARE GOING TO GET ANY MORE
ATTENTION THAN THOSE DID?
>> WE LEARNED A LOT FROM FORT
HOOD.
THERE WERE 79 RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT CAME OUT OF FORT HOOD.
AS OF THIS MORNING I WAS GIVEN
-- I REQUESTED AN UPDATE ON HOW
MANY OF THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS
ARE GOING FORWARD.
THEY HAD THEM GOING FORWARD.
I THINK THEY'VE DONE AROUND 65
OF THE 79 THAT HAVE BEEN
IMPLEMENTED.
I TALKED TO COMMANDERS TODAY.
I JUST MET WITH ALL THE CHIEFS
OF THE SERVICE THIS IS AFTERNOON
OUR SENIOR COMMANDERS AT THE
PENTAGON, WENT AROUND THE TABLE,
TALKED TO THEM.
WHAT HAS BEEN DONE?
WHAT HADN'T BEEN DONE?
A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT HAS BEEN
DONE.
NOW, OBVIOUSLY NOT ENOUGH.
BUT A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT HAS BEEN
DONE TO ASSURE THE SAFETY AND
SECURITY, WHETHER IT'S THE
ACCESS TO BASES, WHETHER IT'S
THE PHYSICAL SAFETY AND SECURITY
OF BASES, WHETHER IT'S THE
CREDENTIALING PROCESS.
MUCH, MUCH, HAS BEEN DONE.
OBVIOUSLY WE NEED TO DO MORE AND
WE WILL.
IT WILL I.G. REPORT THAT JUST
CAME OUT ON MONDAY I HAVEN'T
SEEN IT YET.
IT'S IN MY OFFICE AND WE'LL
REVIEW IT.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'RE SAYING
THE NEW REPORTS THAT YOU'RE
COMMISSIONING ARE GOING TO GET
MORE ATTENTION THAN THOSE DID?
>> WELL, NOT TO MINIMIZE THE
ATTENTION THEY GOT.
THEY GOT A LOT OF ATTENTION,
JUDY.
THINGS ARE MUCH, MUCH BETTER
TODAY AS A RESULT OF WHAT
OCCURRED, THE 79 RECOMMENDATIONS
THAT CAME OUT OF FORD HOOD.
NOW, THE NEW COMMISSION THAT
WE'RE GOING FORWARD WITH-- THERE
WILL BE THREE, AN INDEPENDENT
OUTSIDE AND INSIDE-- WE'LL LOOK
AT EVERYTHING.
WE'LL GO BACK AND LOOK AT THOSE
RECOMMENDATIONS.
OBVIOUSLY THERE ARE SOME GAPS
HERE, RED FLAGS THAT DIDN'T GET
CONNECTED.
>> Woodruff: LET ME ASK YOU
ABOUT SYRIA, A TOUGH PART OF THE
WORLD RIGHT NOW.
RUSSIA IS STILL INSISTING THAT
THERE WILL BE NO AGREEMENT ON
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, WHAT HAPPENS
TO SYRIA'S CHEMICAL WEAPONS, IF
THE U.S. IS RETAINING THE RIGHT
TO STRIKE SYRIA MILITARILY.
SO WHERE DOES THAT LEAVE
EVERYTHING?
IS THE ADMINISTRATION SAYING IT
WILL STRIKE SYRIA IF THAT
COUNTRY DOES NOT RELINQUISH
CONTROL OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS?
>> WELL, FIRST I THINK MOST OF
US APPRECIATE THE FACT THAT
WITHOUT THE CREDIBLE THREAT OF
FORCE WE WOULDN'T BE WHERE WE
ARE TODAY.
I THINK MOST OF US ARE GLAD THAT
WE ARE WHERE WE ARE TODAY WITH
THE POSSIBILITY OF MAYBE WE CAN
GET CHEMICAL WEAPONS ISSUES--
WHICH WAS THE INITIAL ISSUE--
RESOLVED TO THE UNITED NATIONS
THROUGH A PROCESS OF INVOLVING
RUSSIA AND OTHER NATIONS THAT IS
THROUGH THE THREAT OF MILITARY
FORCE.
THE PRESIDENT ALWAYS HAS THAT
OPTION.
THAT OPTION IS STILL THERE.
THE PRESIDENT HAS MADE THAT VERY
CLEAR.
>> Woodruff: AND THE U.S. HAS
MOVED SHIPS-- AS WE KNOW-- INTO
THE REGION WHICH HAVE THE
CAPACITY TO STRIKE SYRIA WITH
MISSILES.
HOW LONG WILL THOSE SHIPS REMAIN
THERE?
THROUGH THE ENTIRE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS PROCESS, ASSUMING THAT
GOES FORWARD?
>> WELL, OUR FORCE PROTECTION TO
PROVIDE THE ACTIVE OPTIONS THAT
WE GAVE THE PRESIDENT AT HIS
REQUEST ARE STILL THERE AND THEY
WILL REMAIN THERE UNTIL THE
PRESIDENT DECIDES OTHERWISE.
>> Woodruff: WHICH MEANS IT
COULD BE WELL INTO 2014?
>> WELL, I'M NOT GOING TO GET
INTO HYPOTHETICALS AND HOW LONG
IT COULD BE.
WE'LL SEE WHERE THIS PLAYS OUT
NEXT WEEK IN NEW YORK BUT THAT
OPTION IS THE PRESIDENT'S, IT'S
THERE, IT'S REAL.
THE MILITARY THERE TO RESPOND TO
ANY OPTION THE PRESIDENT WILL
DECIDE TO TAKE.
>> Woodruff: BOTH OF YOUR
PREDECESSORS AS SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE WERE AT A DISCUSSION AT
THE SOUTHERN METHODIST
UNIVERSITY IN TEXAS LAST NIGHT.
THEY BOTH SAID THEY WOULD NOT
HAVE GONE TO CONGRESS TO SEEK
AUTHORIZATION TO STRIKE SYRIA.
FORMER SECRETARY BOB GATES WENT
FURTHER.
HE SAID STRIKING SYRIA IS LIKE
POURING GASOLINE ON AN EXTREMELY
COMPLEX FIRE.
BUT HE ALSO SAID "TO BLOW A
BUNCH OF STUFF UP OVER A COUPLE
OF DAYS TO UNDERSCORE A POINT IS
NOT A STRAT JIR."
>> WELL, FIRST, I HAVE THE
GREATEST RESPECT FOR SECRETARIE
WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT.
EGYPT.
BECAUSE YOU AND YOUR
PREDECESSORS HAVE BEEN IN
REGULAR CONTACT WITH THE
MILITARY LEADERS OF EGYPT.
TODAY AS YOU KNOW, A FORMER
GENERAL, AL-SISI, IS ALSO THE
HEAD OF GOVERNMENT IN EGYPT.
WHAT DO EGYPT'S LEADERS NEED DO
RIGHT NOW IN ORDER TO PREVENT
THE U.S. FROM CUTTING OFF THE
MILITARY AID THAT HAS BEEN
SLOWING TO THAT COUNTRY.
I ASK BECAUSE THEY JUST EXTENDED
THE STATE OF EMERGENCY IN EGYPT.
>> WELL, FIRST, I SPOKE WITH
GENERAL AL-SISI YESTERDAY.
I'VE SPOKEN TO HIM MANY, MANY
TIMES IN THE LAST TWO MONTHS.
THERE IS AN INTERIM GOVERNMENT
IN PLACE TODAY.
THEY ARE MOVING FORWARD ON A
PATHWAY TOWARD BUILDING A
CONSTITUTIONAL ELECTION.
NOW, THAT SAID GENERAL AL-SISI
UNDERSTANDS FULL WELL WHERE
AMERICA IS ON THIS.
THEY HAVE BEEN VERY IMPORTANT
PARTNERS WITH ISRAEL CARRYING
OUT THE CAMP DAVID ACCORDS, THE
PEACE TREATY.
WE HAVE COOPERATED WITH EGYPT ON
MANY ISSUES AND CONTINUE.
WE HAVE COMMON INTERESTS.
BUT UNTIL EGYPT MOVES BACK IN A
VERY CLEAR WAY TOWARD AN
INCLUSIVE, FREE, DEMOCRATIC
COUNTRY THEN WE WILL CONTINUE TO
WITHHOLD SOME OF THOSE MILITARY
ASSETS.
ALREADY THE PRESIDENT HAS
ANNOUNCED THAT WE WOULD NOT GO
FORWARD.
WE'VE ALREADY ANNOUNCED THAT WE
WOULD PULL DOWN BRIGHT STAR
MILITARY EXERCISE.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE SAYING
WITHHOLDING MILITARY ASSISTANCE
WILL CONTINUE AS LONG AS, WHAT?
>> WELL, AS I SAID, WE WANT TO
CONTINUE TO SEE PROGRESS BEING
MADE WITH THE INTERIM GOVERNMENT
CIVILIAN GOVERNMENT, NOT A
MILITARY GOVERNMENT MOVING
TOWARD WHAT GENERAL AL-SISI AND
INTERIM GOVERNMENT HAVE SAID, A
PATHWAY TOWARD INCLUSIVE, FREE,
DEMOCRATIC GOVERNMENT TO INCLUDE
ALL PEOPLE.
OTHER MILITARY-TO-MILITARY
RELATIONSHIP, WHICH IS MUCH
PREDICATED TO IN THE 1979 PEACE
TREATY WITH ISRAEL, THOSE
DECISIONS WILL BE MADE ON A
CASE-BY-CASE BASIS AND THE
PRESIDENT WILL CONTINUE TO MAKE
THOSE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IS EXTENDING
THE STATE OF EMERGENCY ANOTHER
TWO MONTHS CONSISTENT WITH WHAT
YOU JUST SAID?
>> IT IS CONSISTENT.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THIS.
I'VE TALKED TO AL-SISI ABOUT IT
AND THOSE ARE THE KINDS OF
THINGS THAT NEED TO BE PULLED
DOWN AS THEY CONTINUE TO MAKE
PROGRESS, AS THEY SAY THEY'RE
GOING TO.
AND I THINK THEY HAVE MADE SOME.
BUT THERE'S A LONG WAY TO GO.
>> Woodruff: SECRETARY OF
DEFENSE CHUCK HAGEL, THANK YOU
VERY MUCH FOR TALKING WITH US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUST HAVE.
>> Ifill: AND WE RETURN TO THE
FED'S SURPRISING DECISION TO
KEEP POURING MONEY INTO THE BOND
MARKETS.
AT AN ANNOUNCEMENT AND NEWS
CONFERENCE TODAY, CHAIRMAN
BERNANKE SAID THE FED'S STIMULUS
PLAN-- THROUGH WHICH IT
PURCHASES $85 BILLION A MONTH IN
SECURITIES-- IS NEEDED BECAUSE
THE ECONOMY STILL NEEDS HELP.
MANY EXPERTS HAD PREDICTED A FED
PULLBACK, BUT BERNANKE DEFENDED
THE MOVE.
POLICY EXPECTATIONS HAVE TO BE
DETERMINED BY A BEST ASSESSMENT
OF WHAT'S NEEDED FOR THE
ECONOMY.
WHAT WE WILL BE LOOKING AT IS
THE THE OTHER ALL MARKET
SITUATION, INCLUDING THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE BUT INCLUDING
OTHER FACTORS AS WELL.
BUT IN PARTICULAR THERE IS NOT
ANY MAGIC NUMBER THAT WE ARE
SHOOTING FOR.
WE'RE LOOKING FOR OVERALL
IMPROVEMENT IN THE LABOR MARKET.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S MOVES COMES
AMID A VERY-PUBLIC AND HIGHLY-
ANTICIPATED DECISION FROM THE
PRESIDENT ABOUT WHO WILL SUCCEED
BERNANKE NEXT YEAR.
WE LOOK DEEPER INTO THE FED'S
THINKING WITH NEIL IRWIN, WHO
COVERS THE FINANCIAL WORLD FOR
THE "WASHINGTON POST."
HE'S ALSO THE AUTHOR OF "THE
ALCHEMISTS: THREE CENTRAL
BANKERS AND A WORLD ON FIRE."
WELCOME, NEIL.
>> HI.
>> Ifill: SO I KNOW THE FED IS
NOT RESPONDING TO EXPECTATIONS
AND WHAT WE SAW IS THEY
CONFOUNDED EXPECTATIONS.
WHY?
>> WELL, YOU KNOW, WE'VE HAD
THIS STIMULUS COMING OUT OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE FOR THE LAST
YEAR.
$85 BILLION A MONTH THEY'RE
PUMPING INTO THE FINANCIAL
MARKET AND THE EXPECTATION WAS
IT'S TIME TO TURN THAT SPIGOT
BACK AND TURN DOWN THE DIAL AND
THAT ASSUMES THE ECONOMY IS
DOING WELL AND CAN SUPPORT
ITSELF ON ITS OWN.
IT'S TIME TO TEND PROGRAM.
WHAT BEN BERNANKE AND THE
FEDERAL RESERVE WERE SAYING
TODAY IS NOT JUST YET.
THERE'S ENOUGH RISKS OUT THERE,
ENOUGH WEAKNESS IN THE LABOR
MARKET, ENOUGH RISE IN INTEREST
RATES RECENTLY AND ENOUGH RISK
ON THE FISCAL SIDE, ENOUGH RISK
OUT OF THE GOVERNMENT THAT THEY
DON'T WANT TO PULL BACK ON THAT
STIMULUS JUST YET.
THEY'RE GOING TO WAIT A LITTLE
LONGER.
>> Ifill: I'M NOT AN EXPERT ON
THESE THINGS BUT I WAS SURPRISED
ON THE EMPHASIS ON THE
EMPLOYMENT LANDSCAPE.
>> WE'VE SEEN THAT OUT OF THE
FEDERAL RESERVE OVER THE LAST
YEAR OR SO.
A VERY STRONG EMPHASIS ON TRYING
TO GET UNEMPLOYMENT DOWN, JOBS
UP.
INFLATION HAS BEEN WELL
CONTROLLED.
THAT'S NORMALLY WHAT THE FED
PAYS ATTENTION TO.
THEY'RE FOCUSED ON TRYING TO GET
THE JOB MARKET LOOKING BETTER IN
THE UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: IT SEEMS AS IF THE FED
IS FOCUSED ON WHAT'S HAPPENING
OR NOT HAPPENING ON CAPITOL
HILL.
WHEN HE SAID TODAY THAT FISCAL
POLICY IS RESTRAINING GROWTH AND
A SOURCE OF DOWNSIZE RISK,
FISCAL POLICY?
IT SOUNDS LIKE IT'S WADING INTO
THE POLITICAL MORASS ON CAPITOL
HILL.
>> YOU ALMOST DETECTED A NOTE OF
FRUSTRATION OUT OF BEN BERNANKE
THAT AS THE FED HAS DONE THESE
THINGS TO TRY TO GET THE ECONOMY
GOING, CONGRESS SEEMS TO BE
WORKING IN THE OTHER DIRECTION.
THERE ARE TWO ASPECTS TO IT:
THERE'S THE LONGER-TERM FISCAL
DRAG.
TAX INCREASES AT THE START OF
THE YEAR, THE SEQUESTRATION,
SPENDING CUTS, ALL THOSE THINGS
ARE DRAGGING ON GROWTH AND
THAT'S BEEN A SLOW-MOVING THING
THAT'S BEEN THE CASE FOR MONTHS.
AT THE SAME TIME, THERE'S THE
RISK OF SOMETHING MUCH WORSE
WHICH IS AS WE GET THIS FISCAL
STANDOFF OVER THE NEXT FEW WEEKS
WILL THERE BE A SHUTDOWN IN THE
GOVERNMENT?
WILL CONGRESS BE UNABLE TO REACH
A DEAL TO FUND THE GOVERNMENT?
WILL THEY THREATEN TO NOT RAISE
THE DEBT CEILING AND RISK A
FINANCIAL CRISIS LIKE THERE WAS
BACK IN SUMMER OF 2011?
>> Ifill: IT SOUNDS LIKE HE'S
MORE CONCERNED ABOUT THE DEBT
CEILING BATTLE THAN ANYTHING
ELSE?
>> I THINK HE'S RIGHT.
WHAT BEN BERNANKE FEARS MOST IS
THE KIND OF THING THE FED CAN'T
DO ANYTHING ABOUT WHICH IS A
FINANCIAL CRISIS BROUGHT ABOUT
NOT BY EXTERNAL FACTORS BUT
SELF-INDUCED BY CONGRESS NOT
PLAYING GAMES WITH THE DEBT
CEILING.
>> Ifill: LET'S PLAY ELEPHANTS
IN THE ROOM.
BECAUSE THE QUESTION THAT HE WAS
GOING TO BE ASKED TODAY AND
WHICH, OF COURSE, HE FOUND A WAY
NOT TO ANSWER WHICH IS -- ABOUT
WHO'S GOING TO SUCCEED HIM.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW OFFICIALLY
THAT HE'S LEAVING.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
HIS TERM IS UP JANUARY 31, HE
HAS STUDIOUSLY AVOIDEDENCOMMENTE
PLANS.
IT'S CRYSTA CLLEAR TO ANYONE WHO
FOLLOWS THIS STUFF CAREFULLY
THAT BEN BERNANKE IS PLANNING TO
STEP DOWN.
HIS TERM IS UP AT THE END OF
JANUARY AND NOW WE'RE GETTING
CLEAR INDICATIONS OF WHAT
DIRECTION IS PRESIDENT IS
LEANING IN APPOINTING A
REPLACEMENT.
IT LOOKS LIKE JANET YELLEN, THE
CURRENT VICE CHAIR OF THE FED TO
FOLLOW BERNANKE.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
PEOPLE IN LINE TO REPLACE
BERNANKE.
JANET YELLEN IS THE NUMBER-TWO
PERSON AT THE FED BUT DONALD
COHN IS ALSO SUPPOSED TO BE
UNDER CONSIDERATION.
TELL ME ABOUT THOSE TWO.
>> JANET YELL SEASON THE CURRENT
NUMBER TWO.
SHE HAS BEEN A KEY DEPP TOY BEN
BERNANKE OVER THE LAST THREE
YEARS AND THE ENGINEER OF THE
POLICIES TO GET JOBS ON TRACKS.
SHE'S BEEN LASER FOCUSED ON
EMPLOYMENT.
DON COHN WAS THE PREVIOUS VICE
CHAIRMAN.
HE RETIRED IN 2010, BUT HE'S
KEPT BUSY SINCE THEN AND WOULD
BE A MORE -- HE'S FOCUSED ON
UNEMPLOYMENT, FOCUSED ON
FINANCIAL STABILITY, HE BRINGS
EXPERIENCE AS WELL.
THE QUESTION IS DOES THE
PRESIDENT WANT TO GO WITH THE
OBVIOUS CHOICE, THE NUMBER TWO
SITTING THERE WHO AND HAS
CONTINTH THE BERNANKE
POLL SNEEZE.
>> Ifill: UNTIL LARRY SUMMERS
PULLED OUT OF THIS SHE WAS NOT
THE OBVIOUS CHOICE, WAS SHE?
>> BACK IN THE SPRING FED
WATCHERS WERE CERTAIN JANET
YELLEN WAS GOING TO GET THE JOB
THEN WE GOT THE RUMBLINGS THAT
THE PRESIDENT WAS LEANING TOWARD
LARRY SUMMERS.
JUST A WEEK AGO LARRY SUMMERS
PULLED OUT OF THE RUNNING SO IT
APPEARS JANET YELLEN IS THE
FRONT-RUNNER.
>> Ifill: IF EVERYBODY WAITS TO
SEE WHAT AFFECT THIS WILL HAVE
ON THE ECONOMY, DOESN'T WHOEVER
THE NEXT FED CHAIRMAN IS --
ISN'T THAT PERSON
>> ABSOLUTELY.
YOU KNOW, THERE'S NOT MUCH
REASON TO THINK THAT THINGS ARE
GOING TO RADICALLY CHANGE IN THE
ECONOMY IN THE NEXT THREE OR
FOUR MONTHS.
THAT MEANS WHETHER IT'S JANET
YELLEN OR ANYONE ELSE, THEY HAVE
TO MAKE HARD DECISIONS.
HOW LONG WILL THE FED KEEP THESE
LOW INTEREST RATE POLICIES IN
PLACE?
THE NEXT CHAIRMAN WILL INHERIT A
$4 TRILLION FEDERAL RESERVE
BALANCE SHEET.
HOW AND WHEN DO YOU PULL THAT
AWAY TO AVOID RISKING INFLATION
WHILE TRYING TO PROMOTE GROWTH?
THAT'S THE TRILLION DOLLAR
QUESTIOND CHAIR WILL
HAVE TO ANSWER.
>> Ifill: LET'S TALK ABOUT THE
FED CHAIR FOR ONE MORE MINUTE.
TODAY HE PASSED ON THE CHANCE TO
DO ANYTHING OR SEND A SIGNAL TO
ANYBODY THAT THIS WAS -- THERE
WAS A FUTURE, THAT WE WERE
COMING OUT OF A HOLE.
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION KEEPS
TELLING US WE WERE OUT OF.
WHY?
>> I THINK OVER THE FEDERAL
RESERVE THEY'RE NOT CONVINCED
THIS ECONOMY -- THEY THINK IT'S
GROWING, THEY THINK THERE HAS
BEEN PROGRESS OVER THE LASTY,
UNEMPLOYMENT HAS COME DOWN.
IT'S NOT ENOUGH.
THEY'RE NOT SURE IT'S A
WELL-ENTRENCHED RECOVERY BUT
IT'S TIME TO START PULLING AWAY
THE SUPPORT STRUTS AT A
PARTICULAR TIME WHEN INFLATION
HAS NOT BEEN A RISK.
BEN BERNANKE AND THE FEDERAL
RESERVE FEEL LIKE LET'S GIVE IT
ANOTHER COUPLE MONTHS AND SEE
WHAT HAPPENS.
>> Ifill: WHAT ARE THE SIGNS TO
WATCH FOR FOR US AS LAY PEOPLE
WHEN WE KNOW THAT THE FED WILL
FINALLY PULL OUT OF THIS?
>> THE OVERALL HEADLINE NUMBER
THAT S THE UNEMPLOYMENT RATE.
BUT THERE'S A LOT THAT GOES INTO
THAT.
NOT JUST THE OVERALL
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, IT'S WHY DOES
UNEMPLOYMENT GO DOWN?
ARE PEOPLE DROPPING OUT OF THE
LABOR FORCE?
GIVING UP?
THAT'S NOT A GOOD SIGN.
SO YOU LOOK AT THE RATIO OF THE
POPULATION THAT HAS A JOB.
YOU LOOK AT PRESIDENT NUMBER OF
JOBS THAT COMPANIES ARE ADDING
TO THEIR PAYROLLS.
YOU LOOK AT GROWTH NUMBERS AND
YOU LOOK AT HOW MANY PEOPLE ARE
FINDING NEW POSITIONS.
IT'S NOT JUST ONE NUMBER AND
THAT'S WHAT BEN BERNANKE
EMPHASIZED TODAY.
IT'S A BROAD NUMBER OF THINGS TO
LOOK AT AND UNDERSTANDING S THIS
ECONOMY TAKING OFF OR STILL
STAGNANT?
>> Ifill: STILL WAITING TO SEE.
NEIL IRWIN OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST."
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT,
UNDERSTANDING THE HEALTH CARE
REFORM LAW.
TONIGHT, WE ARE LOOKING AT THE
CHANGES THAT START TAKING EFFECT
WHEN NEW ONLINE INSURANCE
MARKETPLACES KNOWN AS PUBLIC
EXCHANGES OPEN NEXT MONTH.
ONE BIG QUESTION: HOW EMPLOYERS
MAY RESPOND.
JUST TODAY, WALGREEN'S ANNOUNCED
IT WILL MOVE 160,000 OF ITS
EMPLOYEES INTO A PRIVATE
EXCHANGE WHERE THEY CAN CHOOSE
AN INSURANCE PLAN BUT WITH
COMPANY SUBSIDIES.
EXECUTIVES CITED GENERALLY
RISING HEALTHCARE COSTS AS ONE
REASON, BUT SAID EXPENSES
ASSOCIATED WITH THE NEW LAW WERE
A FACTOR AS WELL.
TIME WARNER, SEARS AND TRADER
JOE'S HAVE ANNOUNCED SIMILAR
MOVES.
THAT BRINGS US TO OUR SERIES, IN
WHICH WE TRY TO ANSWER SOME OF
YOUR MORE FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS AND TO RAY SUAREZ.
>> Suarez: THE LAW WAS DESIGNED
TO PROVIDE COVERAGE FOR MANY WHO
DON'T HAVE HEALTH INSURANCE NOW.
BUT THERE ARE STILL MANY
CONCERNS AND QUESTIONS ABOUT
WHAT IT MAY MEAN FOR EMPLOYER-
SPONSORED COVERAGE AND WHETHER
SOME BUSINESSES MAY CHANGE WHAT
THEY OFFER AS THE LAW TAKES FULL
EFFECT.
THE WORKPLACE IS OUR FOCUS
TONIGHT.
AND ONCE AGAIN, WE'RE JOINED BY
"NEWSHOUR" REGULAR, ANALYST
SUSAN DENTZER.
AS YOU KNOW, SUSAN, WE'VE BEEN
GOING OUT INTO THE WORLD AND
BASICALLY SAYING TO PEOPLE "WHAT
QUESTIONS DO YOU STILL HAVE AS
THE FINAL PHASE-IN OF THE LAW
BEGINS?"
AND WE SPOKE TO ONE BUSINESS
OWNER WHO WAS VISITING
WASHINGTON, D.C..
>> MY NAME IS JIM AND THIS IS MY
WIFE JANET.
WE FEAR FROM KENTUCKY AND WE OWN
A SMALL BUSINESS THERE AND WE
FURNISH OUR OWN HEALTH INSURANCE
IT'S AROUND $800 A MONTH AND
WE'RE JUST UNSURE HOW THIS
OBAMACARE MAY AFFECT OUR
INSURANCE.
>> Suarez: JIM BUYS HIS OWN
INSURANCE FOR HE AND HIS WIFE,
HE DOESN'T PROVIDE IT FOR HIS
SIX EMPLOYEES.
SO THIS NEW LAW IS NOW COMING
INTO FULL EFFECT.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN FOR JIM?
>> IF HE'S ONLY BUYING IT FOR
HIMSELF AND HIS WIFE IT WON'T
MEAN A WHOLE LOT.
FOR EMPLOYERS TO BE COVERED --
REQUIRED TO PROVIDE COVERAGE
UNDER THE SO-CALLED EMPLOYER
MANDATE WHICH, BY THE WAY, WILL
NOT TAKE AFFECT NOW UNTIL 2015,
YOU HAVE TO BE A BUSINESS WITH
AT LEAST 50 EMPLOYEES.
AND SO CLEARLY THAT WILL NOT
CHANGE -- THAT WILL NOT BE
APPLICABLE IN HIS CASE.
IT IS THE CASE WHERE IF YOU ARE
A VERY SMALL BUSINESS AND HAVE
25 OR FEWER EMPLOYEES AT AN
AVERAGE WAGE OF
$50,000 YOU CAN APPLY FOR AND
RECEIVE TAX CREDITS TO HELP BUY
INSURANCE.
BUT GIVEN WHAT HE DESCRIBES,
THAT'S PROBABLY NOT APPLICABLE
IN HIS CASE.
IN ESSENCE, A BIG CHANGE FOR HIM
WILL BE THAT THERE WILL BE A NEW
SMALL BUSINESS HEALTH INSURANCE
EXCHANGE IN KENTUCKY AS IN THE
OTHER STATES WHERE SMALL
BUSINESSES CAN ALSO GO TO BUY
COVERAGE AND THIS WILL MEAN IN
MANY STATES THAT THERE ARE MORE
OPTIONS AVAILABLE FOR SMALL
BUSINESSES THAN EVER BEFORE.
IN SOME INSTANCES, THOSE PLANS
WILL PROBABLY BE MORE REASONABLY
PRICED BECAUSE IN EFFECT WHAT IS
HAPPENING NOW IS THAT REPORTING
ALL THE SMALL BUSINESS WORKERS
AND MANY STATES INTO LARGER
GROUPS OF PEOPLE WHO ARE GOING
TO BE BUYING COVERAGE ON THE
MARKETPLACE.
>> Suarez: IS KENTUCKY ONE OF
THE STATES COOPERATING WITH THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN ROLLING
OUT THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT?
>> KENTUCKY IS RUNNING ITS OWN
STATE-BASED INSURANCE EXCHANGE,
SO BOTH FOR THE INDIVIDUAL
EXCHANGE AND THE SO-CALLED SHOP
EXCHANGE, THE SMALL BUSINESS
EXCHANGE, THOSE ARE BEING RUN BY
THE STATE.
>> Suarez: WE'VE ALSO BEEN
GETTING SOME E-MAIL AND OTHER
FORMS OF COMMUNICATION, SOCIAL
MEDIA, OTHER PEOPLE'S QUESTIONS.
IRMA FROM LUMERTOWN NEW JERSEY
WRITES:
>> WELL, NOT KNOWING ENTIRELY
HIS CIRCUMSTANCES, IT SOUNDS AS
IF HE MAY BE WORKING LESS THAN A
FULL-TIME JOB, WHICH THIS CASE
HIS EMPLOYER FELT THAT IT WAS
NOT NECESSARY TO PROVIDE
COVERAGE.
POSSIBLY IT COULD BE THE CASE
THAT HIS EMPLOYER INTENDS TO
MOVE TO SOMETHING CALLED A
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLAN WHERE
EVENTUALLY THE EMPLOYER WILL
SIMPLY GIVE AN EMPLOYEE MONEY TO
GO TO AN INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE
EXCHANGE TO BUY COVERAGE.
I'M NOT SURE ABOUT THE SUBSIDIES
IN HIS CASE.
IT IS THE CASE THAT THE
SUBSIDIES ARE AVAILABLE TO
FAMILIES -- SAY A FAMILY OF FOUR
WITH INCOME UP AROUND $94,000 A
YEAR-- FOUR TIMES THE FEDERAL
POVERTY LEVEL.
SO THE SUBSIDIES ARE RATHER
GENEROUS IN MOST INSTANCES AND
THEY AVERAGE FOR AN INDIVIDUAL
ABOUT -- THE AVERAGE SUBSIDY
WILL BE ABOUT $5,000.
>> Suarez: STORIES HAVE BEEN
HITTING THE NEWS FROM TIME TO
TIME OF EMPLOYERS CHANGING WHAT
THEY PROVIDE IN THE WAKE OF THE
LAW.
ARE THERE ANY EITHER INCENTIVES
OR DISINCENTIVES FOR EMPLOYERS
TO CHANGE WHAT THEY DO WHEN IT
COMES TO PROVIDING HEALTH CARE
OPTIONS FOR THEIR WORKERS?
>> WELL, IT CERTAINLY IS THE
CASE THAT THE UNITED STATES HAS
BEEN AN OUTLIER IN THE SENSE
THAT WE'VE TIED SO MUCH HEALTH
INSURANCE COVERAGE TO EMPLOYMENT
OR YOUR EMPLOYMENT STATUS OR THE
STATUS OF YOUR PARENTS OR
OTHERS.
SO THEY ARE AN OUTLIER IN THAT
RESPECT AND WE ARE MOVING
GRADUALLY TO A SYSTEM WHERE
PEOPLE CAN BE ASSURED OF
COVERAGE EVEN IF THEY'RE NOT
WORKING.
SO WE'RE ATTENUATING THIS
EMPLOYMENT OVER TIME AND I THINK
IN GENERAL WE EXPECT OVER TIME
MORE AND MORE WORKERS WILL WANT
TO BE BUYING COVERAGE ON AN
EXCHANGE BY THEMSELVES OR WANT
THE ACCESS TO MORE INSURANCE
OPTIONS THAN TYPICALLY MANY
PEOPLE HAVE THROUGH AN EMPLOYER.
AND I THINK OVER TIME WE WILL
SEE MORE OF THE COVERAGE MOVE TO
PEOPLE BUYING IT ON THEIR OWN
THROUGH EXCHANGES PROBABLY WITH
ASSISTANCE FINANCIALLY FROM
THEIR EMPLOYERS AS WELL AS, OF
COURSE, FROM THE GOVERNMENT FOR
THOSE WITH LOW ENOUGH INCOMES.
>> Suarez: IN A CASE LIKE THAT
FLIEGERS THEY MIGHT HAVE BEEN
TOLD TO BUY COBRA BEFORE.
IS THAT STILL GOING TO EXIST IN
THE SAME WAY FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
LOSING THEIR HEALTH CARE FROM
THEIR EMPLOYER?
>> YES, CEB WILL EXIST SO THAT
IF YOU LOSE A JOB YOU WILL HAVE
THE ABILITY TO RETAIN YOUR
EMPLOYMENT-BASED COVERAGE FOR
THE COBRA PREMIUM.
HOWEVER THIS IS ANOTHER ASPECT
OF THE LAW THAT I THINK FOR MANY
PEOPLE WILL REPRESENT A
POSITIVE.
THEY'LL HAVE MORE CHOICES IF
THEY'RE UNEMPLOYED IN THE FUTURE
BECAUSE YOU'LL BE ABLE MOST
LIKELY TO BUY COVERAGE THROUGH
THE MARKETPLACE AND TO AVAIL
YOURSELF OF SUBSIDYS IF YOUR
INCOME IS LOW ENOUGH.
>> Suarez: SUSAN DENTZER, THANKS
FOR MAKING IT SO SIMPLE.
>> GREAT TO BE WITH YOU, RAY.
>> Woodruff: OUR SERIES
CONTINUES ONLINE, WHERE YOU CAN
LEAVE YOUR QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
NEW HEALTH LAW.
AND WE'LL TRY TO ANSWER THOSE IN
THE COMI
>> Ifill: NOW, TO A TOWN THAT'S
BEEN CALLED GROUND ZERO FOR
CLIMATE CHANGE.
EVEN AS RESIDENTS OF BARROW,
ALASKA COPE WITH CHANGING
WEATHER PATTERNS AND MELTING SEA
ICE, MANY ARE DETERMINED TO KEEP
THEIR TRADITIONAL WAY OF LIFE.
COPING WITH CLIMATE CHANGE:
ARCTIC THAW "NEWSHOUR'S" APRIL
BROWN REPORTS PART THREE OF OUR
SERIES "ARCTIC THAW."
>> Reporter: IT'S A DAY OF
FISHING OUT IN THE ARCTIC OCEAN
FOR BROTHERS BROWER AND JACK
FRANTZ.
THEY ARE CHECKING THE NETS
THEY'VE RECENTLY SET NEAR THE
SHORELINE OF POINT BARROW-- THE
NORTHERNMOST TIP OF NORTH
AMERICA THAT SITS MORE THAN 300
MILES ABOVE THE ARCTIC CIRCLE.
TODAY'S CATCH IS SEEN AS A
MODERATE SUCCESS.
THE BROTHERS WERE BORN AND
RAISED IN NEARBY BARROW, ALASKA-
- ONE OF EIGHT VILLAGES IN THE
NORTH SLOPE BOROUGH.
AN AREA THAT SPRAWLS ACROSS MORE
THAN 90,000 SQUARE MILES AND
THAT FOR MOST OF THE YEAR CAN
ONLY BE REACHED BY PLANE, OR
DEPENDING ON THE SEA-ICE, SHIP.
NEARLY 5,000 PEOPLE CALL BARROW
HOME, ROUGHLY HALF ARE NATIVE
INUPIAT ESKIMOS.
AND FOR BROWER AND JACK, TODAY
IS SIMPLY ANOTHER DAY AT THE
OFFICE.
THEY ARE OFTEN IN SEARCH OF
WALRUS, SEALS  AND WHEN THE
SEASON IS RIGHT, TWICE A YEAR
THEY GO FOR THE BIGGEST PRIZE OF
THEM ALL-- BOWHEAD WHALES-- THE
MARINE MAMMAL THAT HAS BEEN AT
THE CENTER OF INUPIAT CULTURE
FOR GENERATIONS.
ALL OF THEIR CATCH WILL LATER BE
SHARED WITH THEIR FAMILY AND
FRIENDS.
>> I GUESS YOU COULD SAY IT'S A
CERTAIN STANDING WITHIN YOUR
COMMUNITY YOU PROVIDE FOR YOUR
COMMUNITY, YOU ASSIST OTHERS
WITH PROVIDING FOR YOUR
COMMUNITY.
IT'S LIKE A JOB, YOU HAVE A JOB
AND YOU NEED WORKERS WHILE YOU
CATCH A WALRUS OR A WHALE OR A
SEAL YOU NEED THOSE WORKERS AND
THEY DON'T GET PAID WITH MONEY
THEY GET PAID WITH THE SHARES
FROM THESE ANIMALS, SO IT'S A
GREAT BOUNTY.
>> Reporter: IT'S PART OF A
SUBSISTENCE TRADITION THAT HAS
BEEN HANDED DOWN OVER CENTURIES
AND INCLUDES HUNTING LAND
ANIMALS AND BIRDS AS WELL.
>> THIS IS OUR GARDEN, OUR
GROCERY STORE YOU KNOW WE DON'T
I MEAN, YOU CAN PRETTY MUCH LIVE
OFF THE LAND.
>> Reporter: THIS LIFESTYLE CAN
BE TRACED BACK TO 400 A.D. WHEN
THE FIRST HUMANS SETTLED AROUND
PRESENT-DAY BARROW, BUTICHA MEL
DONOVAN WORRIES THAT BECAUSE OF
RISING TEMPERATURES AND MELTING
SEA ICE, FUTURE GENERATIONS MAY
NOT BE ABLE TO LIVE THE SAME
WAY.
>> YEAH, IT'S DEFINITELY
CHANGING A LOT AND IT'S KIND OF
HARD TO SAY IF OUR YOUNGER
GENERATIONS WILL BE ABLE TO DO
WHAT WE DO.
>> Reporter: DONOVAN GREW UP IN
BARROW.
HE USES HIS LOCAL KNOWLEDGE TO
HELP WITH LOGISTICS AND ACTS AS
A POLAR BEAR GUARD FOR  A
COMPANY THAT PROVIDES FIELD
SUPPORT FOR SCIENTISTS WORKING
IN THE AREA.
AMONG THEM, IGNATIUS RIGO AR,
CLIMATOLOGIST AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF WASHINGTON'S POLAR SCIENCE
CENTER.
HE IS IN BARROW TO CHECK ON
BUOYS DEPLOYED ACROSS THE ARCTIC
OCEAN THAT MEASURE SURFACE AIR
TEMPERATURE AND AIR PRESSURE.
LIKE MANY SCIENTISTS STUDYING
CHANGES IN THE REGION, RIGOR HAS
BEEN COMING TO THE ARCTIC FOR
YEARS.
>> THIS IS THE FRONTLINE OF
GLOBAL CLIMATE CHANGE.
AND YOU KNOW BASICALLY BEFORE
THE PLANET CAN HEAT UP.
IT'S LIKE YOUR GLASS OF WATER
BEFORE IT CAN GET WARM YOU HAVE
TO GET RID OF THE ICE AND SO WE
ARE SEEING THE ICE DISAPPEAR AND
WE ARE SEEING THE ARCTIC OCEAN
START TO WARM UP.
>> Reporter: AVERAGE WINTER
TEMPERATURES HAVE RISEN SHARPLY
IN THE ARCTIC IN THE PAST FEW
DECADES.
AND RIGOR, AN EXPERT ON SEA ICE,
SAYS THE RESULT HAS HAD MAJOR
CONSEQUENCES.
>> WHAT WE DO SEE IS THAT THIS
ICE IS MELTING AWAY
DRAMATICALLY.
WE'VE LOST MORE THAN HALF THE
ICE COVER THAT WE TYPICALLY HAVE
AND WE'VE LOST A LOT OF THE
THICKNESS OF SEA ICE AND SO
TAKEN TOGETHER THE TOTAL VOLUME
OF SEA ICE YOU KNOW IS DOWN TO
LESS THAN 40% OF WHAT IT USED TO
BE.
>> Reporter: FOR CENTURIES
WHAT'S KNOWN AS MULTI-YEAR ICE,
OR THE ACCUMULATION OF SEA ICE
FROM ONE YEAR TO THE NEXT, HAS
BEEN CRUCIAL TO LIFE HERE.
IT PROVIDES WHALING CAPTAINS
LIKE HARRY BROWER THE PEACE OF
MIND TO KNOW THAT HIS CREW CAN
STAND ON THICK ICE WHILE HUNTING
WHALES, SOMETHING INUPIATS STILL
HAVE SPECIAL PERMISSION TO DO.
BUT IN THE PAST FEW YEARS BROWER
SAYS HE'S SEEN MOSTLY STRETCHES
OF SMALL, SHALLOW ICE THAT ARE
EXTREMELY DANGEROUS FOR HUNTERS
AND BECAUSE OF THE CONDITIONS
THE COMMUNITY HAS STRUGGLED TO
REACH ITS ANNUAL QUOTA.
>> LAST SPRING WAS VERY POOR.
WE DIDN'T EVEN HARVEST ONE FOR
BARROW THROUGHOUT THE WHOLE
MIGRATORY SEASON.
>> Reporter: POOR WHALING
SEASONS HAVE ALSO HURT OTHER
COMMUNITIES ALONG THE NORTH
SLOPE, WHERE THE COST OF LIVING
IS ROUGHLY 275% HIGHER THAN IT
IS FOR AMERICANS IN THE LOWER
48, AND RESIDENTS ROUTINELY PAY
MORE THAN $10 FOR A GALLON OF
MILK.
>> THAT BECOMES A FOOD SHORTAGE
IN A SENSE IF YOU THINK ABOUT
YOU KNOW ONE WHALE PROVIDING FOR
A WHOLE COMMUNITY.
>> Reporter: ARCTIC
ARCHAEOLOGIST ANNE JENSEN ALSO
POINTS TO ANOTHER CONSEQUENCE OF
SEA-ICE MELTING: COASTAL
EROSION.
SEA-ICE OFFERS BARROW SHORES
PROTECTION AND NOW THAT IT'S
STARTING TO DISAPPEAR, WAVES
HAVE BEGUN WASHING AWAY INUPIAT
ARTIFACTS THAT ARE THOUSANDS OF
YEARS OLD, TAKING WITH THEM A
PAST THAT JENSEN SAYS COULD
PROVIDE CLUES FOR THE FUTURE.
>> WHEN WE LOSE ARCHEOLOGICAL
SITES, WE NOT ONLY LOSE
INFORMATION ABOUT YOU KNOW
PEOPLES HERITAGE AND THE PAST,
BUT IF YOU HAVE A SITE THAT'S
CALLED STRATIFIED SO YOU HAVE
LAYERS YOU CAN ACTUALLY SEE HOW
THINGS CHANGED THROUGH TIME AND
HOW PEOPLE'S SUBSISTENCE
CHANGED, BUT IF THE SITES FALL
IN THE WATER BEFORE YOU EXCAVATE
THEM THEN YOU OW IKNTS LIKE
BURNING LIBRARIES.
>> Reporter: EVEN THOUGH THE
MELTING SEA ICE HAS CHANGED, THE
WAY A LOT OF ALASKANS ON THE
NORTH SLOPE BUREAU GO ABOUT
THEIR TRADITIONS, IT'S ALSO
BRINGING A LOT OF ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITIES.
SEA ROUTES-- ONCE BLOCKED BY
LAYERS OF IMPENETRABLE ICE--
HAVE RECENTLY BEGUN OPENING AND
MANY CORPORATIONS ARE EYEING
WAYS TO PUSH FURTHER INTO THE
RESOURCE-RICH ARCTIC.
OIL AND GAS COMPANIES ALREADY
OPERATING IN THE REGION PAY
TAXES THAT FINANCE THE NORTH
SLOPE BOROUGHS $350 MILLION
BUDGET.
>> WITHOUT THAT SUPPORT OF THE
INDUSTRY WE WON'T HAVE ANYTHING.
OUR PEOPLE GOT TO HAVE JOBS.
>> Reporter: ANTHONY EDWARDSEN
IS THE PRESIDENT OF THE
UKPEAGVIC INUPIAT CORPORATION
THAT PROMOTES ECONOMIC GROWTH IN
THE NORTH SLOPE.
>> I BELIEVE STRONGLY WHEN IT
>> Reporter: OIL WAS DISCOVERED
IN NEARBY PRUDHOE BAY IN THE
1960s AND HAS TRANSFORMED AN
AREA THAT AT THE TIME WAS
LARGELY WITHOUT ELECTRICITY,
RUNNING WATER AND MODERN
SCHOOLS.
>> I BELIEVE STRONGLY WHEN IT
COMES TO THE INDUSTRY THAT WE
BENEFIT AS LONG AS IT'S DIVIDED
AMONG US IN AN EQUAL WAY.
IF WE DON'T PARTICIPATE, WE'RE
GOING TO LOSE OUT.
>> Reporter: THE NORTH SLOPE HAS
PRODUCED AS MUCH AS ONE-FIFTH OF
THE NATIONS OIL.
BUT EVEN TODAY DEBATE CONTINUES
AMONG INUPIAT'S ON FURTHER
OFFSHORE DEVELOPMENT THAT COULD
THREATEN THEIR NATIVE
TRADITIONS.
>> THEY REALIZE THAT THERE IS A
BOUNTY OFF THEIR COAST THAT
COULD REALLY IMPROVE THEIR
LIFESTYLE BUT DO THEY
NECESSARILY WANT TO CHANGE THEIR
WAY OF LIFE AND YOU KNOW IF AN
ACCIDENT HAPPENS YOU KNOW THERE
GOES SUBSISTENCE HUNTING AND
WHALING.
>> Reporter: MICHAEL DONOVAN
SAYS THAT IF THE CHOICE WERE
LEFT UP TO HIM, IT WOULD BE AN
EASY ONE.
>> EVEN IF THEY PAID ME A
MILLION DOLLARS OR YOU KNOW $100
MILLION, I WOULDN'T TRADE THIS
LIFESTYLE FOR ANYTHING IN THE
WORLD.
>> Reporter: THE PEOPLE OF
ALASKA'S NORTH SLOPE ARE LIKELY
TO FACE A RANGE OF CLIMATE
DECISIONS SOON, AS SCIENTISTS
PREDICT THAT THE ARCTIC IS
WARMING NEARLY TWICE AS FAST AS
ANY PLACE ON THE PLANET.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE HAVE MORE
FROM THE ARCTIC, INCLUDING HOW A
PEA-SIZED SEA SNAIL IS BEING
THREATENED BY CHANGING OCEAN
CHEMISTRY AND WHAT THAT MEANS
FOR MARINE LIFE.
WE ALSO HAVE A REPORT ON THE
COMPLICATIONS AND CONTROVERSY
SURROUNDING OIL EXPLORATION IN
THE REGION.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT,
ONE OF THE PIONEERS OF
PHOTOGRAPHY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION.
HE WAS, FIRST, "BRADY OF
BROADWAY."
MATHEW BRADY, ONE OF THE BEST-
KNOWN PORTRAIT PHOTOGRAPHERS OF
HIS DAY, A SHAPER OF IMAGES OF
THE LIKES OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN AND
THEN, OF A SEARING PERIOD IN
AMERICAN HISTORY-- THE CIVIL
WAR.
BRADY'S OWN STORY IS TOLD NOW IN
A NEW BIOGRAPHY:
"MATHEW BRADY: PORTRAITS OF A
NATION".
AUTHOR ROBERT WILSON IS EDITOR
OF "THE AMERICAN SCHOLAR".
HE JOINS ME NOW.
WELCOME TO YOU.
>> THANK YOU, GREAT TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: THIS IS AN INTERESTING
CASE WHERE THE WORK IS SO FAMOUS
YET IT TURNS OUT THERE'S HUGE
GAPS IN WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT THE
MAN AND MANY MYTHS ABOUT THE
WORK.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
BRADY -- IT'S INTERESTING,
BECAUSE BRADY WAS SO COMMITED TO
HISTORY AND TO RECORDING HISTORY
THROUGH HIS PHOTOGRAPHS AND YET
HE LEFT VERY LITTLE TRACE OF
HIMSELF AND HE KNEW SO MANY OF
IMPORTANT PEOPLE AND EVENTS AT
THIS TIME AND HE HAD THIS SORT
OF ZELIG-LIKE EXISTENCE WHERE HE
WAS ALWAYS OFF TO THE SIDE.
>> Brown: WHAT IS CLEAR THAT
HE'S A PHOTOGRAPHER WE KNOW BUT
I THINK WHAT YOU'RE PAINTING A
PORTRAIT OF SOMEONE, WE'D CALL
HIM TODAY A ENTREPRENEUR, RIGHT?
A BUSINESSMAN.
AND AS YOU SAY, A MAST OVER
PROMOTION.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
ONE OF THE WAYS IN WHICH I WAS
ABLE TO FIND OUT A LOT MORE
ABOUT BRADY THAN I EXPECTED TO
IS FOLLOWING THE ADVERTISEMENTS
AND HE WOULD LIKE HIS NEIGHBOR
ACROSS THE STREET IN BROADWAY
WHEN HE WAS IN NEW YORK, P.T.
BARNUM.
HE WAS A GREAT MASTER OF USING
ADVERTISING IN NEWSPAPERS AND
OTHER PUBLICATIONS.
SO I WAS ABLE TO FIND OUT A LOT
ABOUT HIM THAT WAY AS WELL.
BUT EARLY ON ONE OF THE THING HE
IS DID TO ESTABLISH HIMSELF WAS
REALLY DEVOTE HIMSELF TO TAKING
IMAGES OF THE FAMOUS.
SO THERE WAS A LOT OF REFLECTED
GLORY, I THINK, ON HIM.
>> Brown: IN FACT, YOU SAY HE
HELPED CREATE THIS WHOLE IDEA OF
CELEBRITY IN AMERICA.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
HE I THINK PARTLY HAND IN HAND
WITH BARNUM WHO MUST HAVE BEEN
SOME SORT OF INSPIRATION TO HIM,
HE TOOK EARLY PICTURES OF
GENERALLY LYND WHO WHEN HE FIRST
AN INCREDIBLY
FAMOUS AND WELL RECEIVED TOUR OF
AMERICA BRADY WAS THERE TAKING
PICTURES OF HER WHEN THE CROWN
PRINCE OF ENGLAND CAME ON
ANOTHER TOUR ABOUT WHICH THERE
WERE 200 ARTICLES IN THE "NEW
YORK TIMES" I CAME TO THIS
COUNTRY AND TO CANADA, BRADY'S
STUDIO WAS ONE OF THE FIRST
PLACES THAT ALBERT CAME TO HAVE
THIS PHOTOGRAPH MADE AND SO HE
-- HE BECAME ASSOCIATED WITH
CELEBRITY HIMSELF AND PEOPLE
WANTED TO COME AND BE
PHOTOGRAPHED BY HIM.
>>.
>> Brown: ONE OF THOSE
CELEBRITIES, THE MOST FAMOUS AT
ALL, IS ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
1860 AT THE COOPER UNION AND
THERE'S THIS FAMOUS QUOTE "BRADY
AND THE COOPER INSTITUTE MADE ME
PRESIDENT."
WE DON'T KNOW IF LINCOLN SAID
THAT OR BRADY SAID THAT.
>> THE SOLE SOURCE FOR THAT
QUOTE IS BRADY HIMSELF.
SO TAKE IT AS YOU WILL.
LINCOLN DID COME TO BRADY'S
STUDIO ON THE DAY OF THE COOPER
UNION SPEECH AND HE'D BEEN
TRAVELING BY TRAIN FROM
SPRINGFIELD TO COME AND GIVE THE
TALK AND HE PULLED OUT OF HIS
RELEASE A NEW SUIT THAT WAS JUST
INCREDIBLY WRINKLED AND THERE'S
SOME THOUGHT THAT PART OF WHAT
MADE THE PHOTOGRAPH SO IMPORTANT
WAS THAT IT HUMANIZED LINCOLN
AND MADE HIM SEEM MORE KIND OF
LIKE A NORMAL PERSON. WAS VERY
INFLUENTIAL, WAS WIDELY
REPRODUCED AND YEAH, WHETHER IT
MADE HIM PRESIDENT OR NOT, I
DON'T KNOW.
>> Brown: AND WHAT HE'S MOST
FAMOUS FOR, THE CIVIL WAR
PHOTOS.
THE QUESTION, THE CONTROVERSY,
THERE'S ALWAYS BEEN HOW MUCH OF
THE WORK HE TOOK AND HOCH OF IT
HE DID HIMSELF, HOW MUCH HE TOOK
CREDIT FOR THE WORK OF OTHERS.
TO WHAT DEGREE DOES IT MATTER?
WHERE DID HE COME OUT ON THAT?
>> WELL, BRADY, AS WE SAID, HE
WAS A BUSINESSMAN.
HIS STUDIO EMPLOYED A NUMBER OF
DIFFERENT PEOPLE DOING A NUMBER
OF DIFFERENT THINGS INCLUDING
PEOPLE WHO WERE ACTUALLY TOOK
THE PHOTOGRAPHS THEMSELVES SO
BRADY HAD A BIGGER ROLE AND HIS
NAME BECAME THE BRAND FOR WHAT
WAS DONE IN HIS STUDIO AND WHAT
HIS PEOPLE DID.
IT'S A LITTLE BIT HARD TO
UNDERSTAND IN THE CONTEXT OF A
PHOTOGRAPHER, AN ART WRIST WE
THINK OF ONE PERSON BEING
RESPONSIBLE FOR THE WORK.
I THINK IN THE CONTEXT OF A
BUSINESSMAN OR BUSINESS YOU
THINK HENRY FORD DIDN'T MAKE THE
CARS AND THE CARS ARE ALL CALLED
FORDS SO ALL THESE PHOTOGRAPHS
THAT WE'VE TAKEN UNDER BRADYS
ARE JUST PHOTOS BY BRADY.
>> Suarez: SO HOW DO YOU DEFINE
HIS IMPACT OR INFLUENCE ON THE
VERY IMAGE WE HAVE OF THAT -- OF
THE CIVIL WAR?
>> I THINK IT'S JUST CENTRAL,
IT'S CRUCIAL.
BRADY -- BEYOND THE PHOTOGRAPH
HE TOOK OR COMMISSIONED TO BE
TAKEN, HE WAS A GREAT COLLECTOR
OF PHOTOGRAPHS AND TO SOME
EXTENT A GREAT STEALER OF
PHOTOGRAPHS OF OTHERS OR COPIER
OF PHOTOGRAPHS OF OTHERS.
THIS WAS WILDLY DONE BUT BRADY
DID IT WITH A SINGLE MINDEDNESS
SO THERE ARE JUST THOUSANDS AND
THOUSANDS, MAYBE AS MANY AS
10,000 IMAGES FROM THOSE YEARS
THAT WE HAVE BECAUSE OF BRADY
AND HIS ENTHUSIASM FOR PULLING A
COLLECTION TOGETHER AND
PRESERVING IT.
>> Brown: HOW DID YOU FEEL ABOUT
HIS CONTRIBUTION TO THE HIS
HISTORY OF PHOTOGRAPHY ITSELF,
THE ART OF IT, AS WELL AS WHAT
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT, THE
BUSINESS OF IT?
>> WELL, GARYS WILL READ MY BOOK
EARLY ON AND GARY READ SOMETHING
ABOUT IT SAID BRADY DIDN'T JUST
MAKE PHOTOGRAPH HE MADE
PHOTOGRAPHY.
AND I THINK IN THE EARLY YEARS
HIS INFLUENCE WAS SO WIDESPREAD
SO MANY OF THE PEOPLE WHO BECAME
GREAT PHOTOGRAPHERS DURING THE
CIVIL WAR WORKED WITH BRADY
FIRST, SO HE WAS A MENTOR TO
THEM.
HE WAS INTERESTED IN IT HAD
DEVELOPMENT OF THE MEDIA AND HE
WAS VERY INTERESTED IN THE IDEA
OF PHOTOGRAPHY AS ART AND TRIED
TO UPHOLD ARTISTIC STANDARDS
WITH WHAT HE DID.
SO, YOU KNOW, HE JUST TOUCHED SO
MANY ASPECTS OF PHOTOGRAPHY IN
ITS FIRST DECADE THAT I THINK HE
WAS -- THERE AGAIN HE WAS
CRUCIAL.
>> Suarez: WE'RE GOING TO
CONTINUE THIS CONVERSATION
ONLINE WHERE I WANT TO ASK YOU
ABOUT SOME OF THE OTHER FAMOUS
PORTRAITS, INCLUDING ONE OF
ROBERT E. LEE RIGHT AFTER THE
WAR.
FOR NOW THE BOOK IS "MATTHEW
BRADY, PORTRAITS OF A NATION."
ROBERT WILSON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
ORDERED A FULL REVIEW OF
SECURITY AND CLEARANCES AT U.S.
MILITARY FACILITIES, IN THE WAKE
OF THE WASHINGTON NAVY YARD
SHOOTINGS.
IN A SURPRISE MOVE, THE FEDERAL
RESERVE ANNOUNCED IT WILL NOT
DIAL BACK ITS ECONOMIC STIMULUS
PROGRAM, JUST YET.
THE NEWS SENT STOCKS HIGHER,
WITH THE DOW INDUSTRIALS GAINING
147 POINTS.
THE DEATH TOLL FROM FLOODING
ACROSS MEXICO ROSE TO 80 LATE
TODAY.
THE COUNTRY WAS HIT BY TWO
TROPICAL STORMS OVER THE
WEEKEND.
AND SYRIAN PRESIDENT BASHAR
ASSAD TOLD FOX NEWS THAT HE IS
COMMITTED TO THE U.S.-RUSSIAN
AGREEMENT ON DISPOSING OF HIS
CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WHAT ARE THE
FINANCIAL BENEFITS OF AGING IN
PLACE?
ITS MORE THAN JUST SAVING ON
HIGH NURSING HOME COSTS.
SEE WHY ON OUR MAKING SENSE
PAGE.
PLUS, HOW BUILDING EMPATHY FOR
MILITARY ROBOTS CAN AFFECT
DECISIONS ON THE BATTLEFIELD.
FIND THAT ON OUR NEWS BLOG.
ON ART BEAT, WE HAVE A WEEK'S
WORTH OF POETS AND POETRY AND
LOOKING FOR YOUR NEXT PAGE
TURNER?
WE'VE LAUNCHED A NEW SECTION
DEVOTED SOLELY TO OUR COVERAGE
OF BOOKS AND INTERVIEWS WITH
AUTHORS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON THURSDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT ONE
CALIFORNIA CITY'S UNIQUE AND
CONTROVERSIAL APPROACH TO
SEIZING UNDERWATER MORTGAGES AND
OFFERING THEM BACK TO HOMEOWNERS
AT LOWER RATES.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
ON BEHALF OF ALL OF US AT THE
"PBS NEWSHOUR," THANK YOU AND
GOOD NIGHT.